• IaaS requires the most user management of all the cloud services. The user is responsible for managing 
the operating systems, data, and applications.
• PaaS requires less user management. The cloud provider manages the operating systems, and the user 
is responsible for the applications and data they run and store.
• SaaS requires the least amount of management. The cloud provider is responsible for managing 
everything, and the end user just uses the software.

Azure is Microsoft’s cloud computing platform. Azure gives you the freedom to build, manage, and deploy 
applications on a massive global network using your favorite tools and frameworks

Azure Cosmos DB Globally distributed database that supports NoSQL options
Azure SQL Database Fully managed relational database with auto-scale, integral intelligence,


Azure App Service Quickly create powerful cloud web-based apps

Azure Cloud Shell is a browser-based command-line experience for managing and developing Azure resources. 
Think of Cloud Shell as an interactive console that you run in the cloud.
Cloud Shell provides two experiences to choose from: Bash and PowerShell. Both include access to the Azure 
CLI, the command-line interface for Azure.


• Size: A VM’s size defines its processor speed, amount of memory, initial amount of storage, and expected 
network bandwidth.
• Region: A region is a set of Azure data centers in a named geographic location. Every Azure resource, 
including virtual machines, is assigned a region. East US and North Europe are examples of regions.
• Network: A virtual network is a logically isolated network on Azure. Each virtual machine on Azure is 
associated with a virtual network. Azure provides cloud-level firewalls for your virtual networks called 
network security groups.
• Resource groups: Virtual machines and other cloud resources are grouped into logical containers called 
resource groups. Groups are typically used to organize sets of resources that are deployed together as 
part of an application or service. You refer to a resource group by